*)INTRO:-The Domain Name System (DNS) is the hierarchical and decentralized naming system used to identify computers reachable through the Internet or other Internet Protocol (IP) networks. The resource records contained in the DNS associate domain names with other forms of information. These are most commonly used to map human-friendly domain names to the numerical IP addresses computers need to locate services and devices using the underlying network protocols, but have been extended over time to perform many other functions as well. The Domain Name System has been an essential component of the functionality of the Internet since 1985. 

*)DOMAIN NAME SPACE:- The domain name space consists of a tree data structure. Each node or leaf in the tree has a label and zero or more resource records (RR), which hold information associated with the domain name. The domain name itself consists of the label, concatenated with the name of its parent node on the right, separated by a dot.[22]
The tree sub-divides into zones beginning at the root zone. A DNS zone may consist of as many domains and sub domains as the zone manager chooses. DNS can also be partitioned according to class where the separate classes can be thought of as an array of parallel namespace trees.
Administrative responsibility for any zone may be divided by creating additional zones. Authority over the new zone is said to be delegated to a designated name server. The parent zone ceases to be authoritative for the new zone.

*)DOMAIN NAME SYNTAX:-The right-most label conveys the top-level domain; for example, the domain name www.example.com belongs to the top-level domain com.
The hierarchy of domains descends from right to left; each label to the left specifies a subdivision, or subdomain of the domain to the right. For example, the label example specifies a subdomain of the com domain, and www is a subdomain of example.com. This tree of subdivisions may have up to 127 levels.
A label may contain zero to 63 characters. The null label, of length zero, is reserved for the root zone. The full domain name may not exceed the length of 253 characters in its textual representation.[20] In the internal binary representation of the DNS the maximum length requires 255 octets of storage, as it also stores the length of the name.
The characters allowed in labels are a subset of the ASCII character set, consisting of characters a through z, A through Z, digits 0 through 9, and hyphen. This rule is known as the LDH rule (letters, digits, hyphen). Domain names are interpreted in case-independent manner.[25] Labels may not start or end with a hyphen.[26] An additional rule requires that top-level domain names should not be all-numeric.

*)NAME SERVERS:- A name server refers to the server component of the Domain Name System (DNS), one of the two principal namespaces of the Internet. The most important function of DNS servers is the translation (resolution) of human-memorable domain names (example.com) and hostnames into the corresponding numeric Internet Protocol (IP) addresses (93.184.216.34), the second principal name space of the Internet, which is used to identify and locate computer systems and resources on the Internet. 
The Domain Name System is maintained by a distributed database system, which uses the client–server model. The nodes of this database are the name servers. Each domain has at least one authoritative DNS server that publishes information about that domain and the name servers of any domains subordinate to it. The top of the hierarchy is served by the root name servers, the servers to query when looking up (resolving) a TLD.
 
*)AUTHORITATIVE NAME SERVER:- An authoritative name server can either be a primary server or a secondary server. Historically the terms master/slave and primary/secondary were sometimes used interchangeably[27] but the current practice is to use the latter form. A primary server is a server that stores the original copies of all zone records. A secondary server uses a special automatic updating mechanism in the DNS protocol in communication with its primary to maintain an identical copy of the primary records.
A DNS authoritative server is a server that stores the DNS records, such as address (A, AAAA) records, name server (NS) records, and mail exchanger (MX) records for a domain name (see also List of DNS record types) and responds with answers to queries against its database. 

*) Zone File Format:-A Domain Name System (DNS) zone file is a text file that describes a DNS zone. A DNS zone is a subset, often a single domain, of the hierarchical domain name structure of the DNS. The zone file contains mappings between domain names and IP addresses and other resources, organized in the form of text representations of resource records (RR). A zone file may be either a DNS master file, authoritatively describing a zone, or it may be used to list the contents of a DNS cache. A zone file is a sequence of line-oriented entries, each of which is either a directive or a text description that defines a single resource record (RR). An entry is composed of fields separated by any combination of white space (tabs and spaces), and ends at a line boundary except inside a quoted string field value or a pair of enclosing formatting parentheses. Any line may end with comment text preceded by a semicolon, and the file may also contain any number of blank lines. 
Directives are control entries that affect the rest of the zone file. The first field of a directive consists of a dollar sign followed by a keyword: 
i) $ORIGIN,  is followed by a domain name to be used as the origin for subsequent relative domain names.
ii) $INCLUDE, is followed by a file name and optional origin domain name to be used when interpreting its contents.
iii)$TTL, is followed by a number to be used as the default TTL (time-to-live).

A resource record in a zone file contains the following fields, some of which are optional depending on the record type:
=> name 	ttl 	record class 	record type 	record data 
=> name 	record class 	ttl 	record type 	record data

i)'NAME' => The name field may be left blank. If so, the record inherits the field from the previous record. A free standing @ is used to denote the current origin. 
ii) 'TTL'(Time To Live)  => The maximum time that a name server caches a record before it checks whether a newer one is available. 
iii) 'CLASS'  => The record class field indicates the namespace of the record information. It may be omitted, in which case the resulting value will be set from the preceding record. The most commonly used namespace is that of the Internet, indicated by parameter IN, but others exist and are in use, e.g., CHAOS. 
iv) 'TYPE'  => The record type field is an abbreviation for the type of information stored in the last field, record data. For example: an address record (type A for IPv4, or type AAAA for IPv6,) maps the domain name from the first field to an IP address in the record data; a mail exchanger record (type MX) specifies the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) mail host for a domain. 
v) 'RECORD DATA'  => The record data field may consist of one or more information elements, depending on the requirements of each record type. For example, an address record only requires an address, while a mail exchanger record requires a priority and a domain name. Such information elements are represented as fields separated by white space. 

Refer to the 'zoneFile.txt' & continue...

At minimum, the zone file must specify the Start of Authority (SOA) record with the name of the authoritative master name server for the zone and the email address of someone responsible for management of the name server (represented as a domain name, with a full stop character in place of the usual @ symbol). The parameters of the SOA record also specify a list of timing and expiration parameters (serial number, slave refresh period, slave retry time, slave expiration time, and the maximum time to cache the record).

The zone files for the DNS root zone and for the set of top-level domains contain resource records only for the authoritative domain name servers for each domain name. 

*)ADDRESS RESOLUTION MECHANISM:- Domain name resolvers determine the domain name servers responsible for the domain name in question by a sequence of queries starting with the right-most (top-level) domain label. 

For proper operation of its domain name resolver, a network host is configured with an initial cache (hints) of the known addresses of the root name servers. The hints are updated periodically by an administrator by retrieving a dataset from a reliable source.

Assuming the resolver has no cached records to accelerate the process, the resolution process starts with a query to one of the root servers. In typical operation, the root servers do not answer directly, but respond with a referral to more authoritative servers, e.g., a query for "www.wikipedia.org" is referred to the org servers. The resolver now queries the servers referred to, and iteratively repeats this process until it receives an authoritative answer. This mechanism would place a large traffic burden on the root servers, if every resolution on the Internet required starting at the root. In practice caching is used in DNS servers to off-load the root servers, and as a result, root name servers actually are involved in only a relatively small fraction of all requests. 
